let's bring in our senior political
analyst Marwan Bashar now Marwan what do
you make of what's come out of The
Summit in Riad what do you make of the
statement is it strong enough is a
statement
enough I think the the statement is is
quite strong and it's quite important
it's quite significant because it does
Express uh the opinion and the will of
57 Arab and Muslim majority countries
there is absolutely no no doubt that
when almost onethird of the world States
speak with one voice and speak with one
clear voice that one what is going on in
Gaza acceptable that it is war crime and
that Israel's and America's Claim about
self-defense is not justifiable is not
accepted and taking a good number of
steps albe it rhetorical and legal
against Israel now in reality a lot of
these countries are not in speaking
terms with one another some of these
leaders don't even talk to one another
some of these countries are actually
enemies with one another don't even have
diplomatic relationships with one
another and yet they've come together
for this it wasn't supposed to be a
summit with so many countries absolutely
so it's it's the this is not a European
Union this is not a Muslim Union this is
not an Arab Union this is a whole bunch
of countries some of them are completely
dependent on the United States
for their survival some of them are
clients of the United States some of
them are enemies of the United States
and Israel some of them normalize
relationship with Israel so the fact
that they're all coming together and
speak with one clear voice I think
that's significant and it could have
repercussions now of course expectations
in the Arab world if you look at social
media and what people are saying
everyone is frustrated because after all
the speeches and all the communic in the
end of the day medicine food fuel is not
reaching the people in God Gaza The
Killing Fields in Gaza continue the war
crimes continue I'm sure Israel did not
translate the final communicate to
Hebrew to understand what's going on
this could be a pressure on Western
countries especially the United States
who without them I think Israel would
think twice about continuing its
genocide in Gaza so I think it's
important strategically it's not
actionable and that's frustrating for a
lot of people and yet it is significant
and you know any time that there are
attacks in Gaza during all of Israel's
Wars on Gaza you always hear people say
but where are the Arab countries what
are they doing for the people in Gaza
what are they doing for the
Palestinians is there anything that they
can do right now in the immediate term
to stop to get Israel to stop what's
happening in Gaza well this this is a
thing right I mean so now uh countries
that are bordering Israel and Gaza for
example take Egypt right Egypt now could
say that it that there is a resolution
by fellow Arab and Muslim countries 57
of them that say that Egypt has a right
indeed I think an obligation to help the
people in Gaza and to break the siege of
necessary because it is part and partial
to The Siege in other words the final
communic could be materialized by a good
number of countries who are serious
about um putting pressure on Israel and
the United States those countries who
are normalized relations could now say
we going to sever relations with Israel
because there is 57 countries behind us
who all say what Israel is doing is war
crimes we cannot continue to have
diplomatic relations now the problem
with the Arab world and the problem with
the expectations of the Arab world is
that they are fanciful the Arab world is
not United and a good number of it is
impotent and a good number of it also is
destroyed by Civil Wars those who are
capable do not want to take action those
who are not capable can say all they
want but they are not effective at the
end of the day so it is a poor and I
don't want to say desperate but it is a
poor situation in the Arab world once
again because of how poor the situation
is and because of how divided are the
Arab majority and Muslim majority
countries the fact that they could all
agree on this one very particular commun
I think that's important it falls short
in what is needed but let's say let see
if it's a good start you mentioned the
neighboring countries what they can what
they can't do Israel's defense minister
said in the last few hours had a very
strong warning for Hezbollah in Lebanon
saying that civilians if Lebanon tries
to join the war that the civilians will
pay will be the first to pay the price
war criminals honestly I mean and I'm
not saying that lightly and not giving
my opinion Israeli leaders are acting
like war criminals they used to be
political criminals now they become war
criminals because when one Israeli
President says there are no Innocents in
Gaza all Palestinians hold
responsibility for October 7 when
another one calls him uh this this very
particular person defense minister calls
him Human animals and then he says he
will treat people in Lebanon the same
way basically the Israelis are taking a
position whereby women children men and
their animals could be slaughtered
in Revenge to what happened October 7th
these are war crimes this is genocide
there's intent and there is action and
it's very dangerous and that's why I
said on a number of occasions here on on
our channel that what worries me now is
not the fact that hisbah wants to you
know uh get Israelis busy on the
Northern uh uh Frontier so that they
will leasen the pressure on the Southern
frontier what worries me is that because
the United States has deployed its
Armada to the east Mediterranean because
the Israelis believe that they don't
want to be subjected to another October
7 that they notah they will initiate in
some form or another an aggression
against Lebanon that's what worries me
because they think this is their chance
why because the Americans are here the
Europeans are supporting and if they
could finish with Gaza that perhaps they
could St with Lebanon it's dangerous
what's going on and once again I think
the policy makers in Western capitals
especially the United States should heed
the calls from the Muslim majority
countries because if we think that they
are mild I think they have spoken all of
them today not to me and to you theyve
spoken to their street because they know
their streets are boiling yeah and they
could implode and not and not just their
streets too we've seen hundreds of
thousands of people coming out on the
streets of of London Madan thank you as
always that's our senior
politic absolutely